viii pannon.

And be it always remembered, such extravagances'
are not confined to the dark periods of the Middle
AgeS. In ourown times we have records of matters
equ'ally monstrousan‘d incredible. The legends
os modern Fanatics and Enthusiasts are, to s'ay
the least, as wild as those of the Monks of old.
The Travels of Bruce were for a long time put
upon a parallel with the marvels of Herodotus3
and the Philosophical TransactionS‚ to say no⁴
thing of the columns of the Annual Register, and
our Daily PaperS, detail· wonderful stories of
showers of blood, of frogS, and of stoneS‚ of
storms and meteorS, which, placed side by side
with the pages of our early chroniclerS, may well
dispute the palm of the marvellouS. Still we do
not dispute the truth of statements relating to
matters of political or judicial importance, be-
cause the very next paragraph of a Journal
gravely assures its readers that a cow has given
birth to a calf with two headS‚ or that a mer-
maid has been captured on the coast of [reland,
or on the shores of the HebrideS. And yet
there would be as much force in such an objec-
tion to the credibility of the modern J ournalist
as there is for disputing the authenticity of the
Monkish HistorianS. If the admixture of false-
hood and truth is allowed to be a sufficient
ground for rejecting evidence, no human record
can be accepted.

But there is one circumstance strongly in
favour of the Monkish Historian3 the concurrent
testimony of numbers as to the same fact. It is
not one or two who depose to particular eveum,
but a large body of men perfectly independent of
each other, yet all living about the same time.
Nor is it an objection‚ that the details of their
narratives are in some respects at variance. On

 

